Add `KubeletInUserNamespace` feature gate (#28827)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/reference/glossary/userns.md

---
title: user namespace
id: userns
date: 2021-07-13
full_link: https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man7/user_namespaces.7.html
short_description: >

>   A kernel feature to emulate root. Used for "rootless containers".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A Linux kernel feature to emulate superuser access for unprivileged users.
```

Author: applied

aka:
tags:
- security
---

A kernel feature to emulate root. Used for "rootless containers".

<!--more-->

> User namespace is a Linux kernel feature that allows a non-root user to emulate fake root privileges that are enough to

Reviewer 2: this glossary definition is optimized for the specific feature. We plan also to work on other use case involving user namespaces - see https://kinvolk.io/blog/2020/12/improving-kubernetes-and-container-security-with-user-namespaces/ for explainer. This glossary item is fine for now, but needs to be updated with the upcoming work. Perhaps insert the TODO on the page?

Author: added

> User namespace is a Linux kernel feature that allows a non-root user to emulate fake root privileges that are enough to
> run containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
User namespaces are a Linux kernel feature that allows a non-root user to emulate superuser ("root") privileges,
for example in order to run containers without being a superuser outside the container.
```

Author: applied

User namespace is effective for mitigating damage of potential container break-out attacks.

> User namespace is a namespace of Linux kernel, not a {{< glossary_tooltip text="namespace" term_id="namespace" >}} of Kubernetes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the context of user namespaces, the namespace is a Linux kernel feature, and not a
{{< glossary_tooltip text="namespace" term_id="namespace" >}} in the Kubernetes sense
of the term.
```

Author: applied
